# Database Access Science Case: "Starting from zero, gain some basic knowledge of what’s in a Roman source catalog, for someone who doesn’t know much about the mission."

## User Story 1: Alistair, the starting graduate student

Alistair is a graduate student who has started working with his advisor, Duncan, on the GREYWARDENS survey. This project is aimed at identifying "dark star-spawning" candidates, and they want to try looking in the Roman wide survey.  Duncan is cares about Alistair's success but has a lot of other demands on his time.  So Alistair needs to learn the data structure of the wide survey. Alistair fortunately learned some Python and understands how to query databases, but really knows nothing at all about the Roman database itself. He pulls up the platform and finds a link to the database schema in one of the intro notebooks.  This brings him to a UI that has nice annotated documentation for each of the columns.  The notebook shows a few examples of how to query the database and select columns using the astroquery.mast interface.  Alistair makes his own notebook, runs these queries, and gets a candidate list. The problem is, some of the search criteria are rather esoteric mixtures of various database columns, and when he tries to download everything and process locally, it's too big.  He goes back to Duncan for  help, but finds Duncan has been trapped deep behind the lines on a committe he works on called "Ogre".  And Alistair needs to report to the team meeting tomorrow what he's been finding. He isn't sure what to do, but does what many grad students do, goes looking for caffine at a nearby coffee shop caled Lothering.

## User Story 2: Leliana, the interested citizen scientist

Alistair orders his regular from the barista, Leliana. While waiting, they strike up a conversation and Alistair talks about his problem.  It turns out, Leliana got an astro minor and has been interested in this kind of science, but didn't persue it, and instead got a CS degree. While she's currently Baristaing to make ends meet, she's got a lot of relevant knowledge of how to work with databases. Lothering is pretty slow, so she sits down with Alistair and her laptop to look for these darkspawn stars.  Alistair shows her the database schema, and she quickly realizes there's a bunch of database queries that could happen server-side using SQL to narrow down the candidate list. She shows Alistair the SQL, which makes him recognize that there's an ADQL interface.  Together they figure out how to make this work with the available documentation.  At the GREYWARDENS meeting the next day, they realize Alistair has found the best set of candidates yet, and he mentions he had the help of a CS person. A week later, the GREYWARDENS team has gotten Leliana working on this project, and are supporting her part-time through a grant one of them has at the local university, letting her finally persue her dream of contributing through astro with her CS skills.


## Notes
* While story 2 might not seem to be "starting from zero" - the point of this case is that Leliana is someone who has a lot of technical knowledge but no familiarity with *Roman*.  Whereas Alistair is the other way around - less technical knowledge but more relevant astro knowledge.  We want pathways for *both* to get to a place where they can do science.
* NOTE ON FUNCTIONALITY: "He pulls up the platform and finds a link to the database schema in one of the intro notebooks. This brings him to a UI that has nice annotated documentation for each of the columns." --> Need a way to display catalog schema browser in the Roman science platform in a user interface that's easy to browse.  Why can't they just go to a webpage with this information on it? This is a valid solution as long as it integrates cleanly in the platform - i.e., one can get from the  platform interface to the web page via links, and that web page is actually a full schema browser not just an index page that isn't always maintained along side the platform.
