# Database Access Science Case: "Cross-match a subset of a Roman catalog with a catalog that is also in some random part of AWS that is sizable but not  big enough to need batch processing."

Robb Stark is a postdoc at a Canadian institution, and is lead of a collaboration that wants to use Roman with radio surveys to better understand how to connect astrometry of radio data and OIR astrometry.  He's inherited this position from his advisor, who was forced to step down as lead of the collaboration due to some diabolically clever machinactions of a rival group based at Lannister University. However, he tries to forge alliances with other groups who have good access to radio telescopes: a collaboration of Australians that happen to include a distant relative of (although they go by the name "Karstark").  They have been working on getting their large radio survey with very high precision astrometric measurements into AWS, and Robb wants to use these resources to win the battle against the Lannister group.  He tries to get them to use HIPSCAT because he knows that's the easiest way to cross-match Roman data. However, he is a bit inexperienced and says some impolitic things.  As a result, the Australian group leaves him with data access as they contine outputting data into AWS, but withdraws their technical support, saying "winter is coming", referring to the academic year in the southern hemisphere beginning.

Robb is left with the task of figuring out how to cross-match their data with Roman's catalogs. This is complicated by the fact that it is not a simple RA/Dec cross-match, as the radio and Roman data are in subtly different coordinate frames.  Fortunately, he's a naturally talented leader, and his research group includes some people who can quickly learn about Roman Science Platform data.  They realize that because the radio data are in AWS, it's relatively easy/cheapish to make a copy of it into the AWS Region the Roman data are on.  Once they've done that, they realize the cross-matching can be done using custom Astropy coordinate frames using just the local science platform installation of Astropy.  While this would be an impractical problem if the data needed to be downloaded before cross matching due to the way the radio data is organized, it's relatively straightforward to use the FITS-in-cloud functionality that exists in Astropy to search small sections of the radio data and cross match against corresponding Roman catalogs.  They do this, all in the platform, as a set of notebooks and python scripts that they run and validate as they work through the radio dataset. This leads to a string of repeated successes where they publish papers with significantly better astrometric precision than the rival Lannister group.

Unfortunately, now winter is coming in The North, and the team eventually starts having trouble keeping up. More tragically, Robb starts running into some personal problems (a dramatic wedding that gets called off due to poor color choices, i.e., a "Red Wedding"), and he decides he wants to leave the field and abandon the collaboration.  The team collapses without his leadership.  Fortunately, they leave behind all of their data and code in public in github and all the data are publicly accesible in the Science Platform. Perhaps his close collaborator from the past, Jon, now at the Alaskan "Wall College", will be able to pick up the project and deal with an even greater data deluge to come...

## Notes

The details of the dataset here are intentionally a bit vague.  That could be sharpened to something more concrete and specific if helpful, but is currently meant to represent a relatively generic workflow.

Additionally, while the details of institution (e.g. Canada, Australia, and US/Alaska) are jokes, the serious part is that the point is that this science case should be doable for people *not* based in US-East-1, but rather in various other very different AWS regions (even if the platform itself is in a specific region).