# Image Viewer Science Case: Sky-to-image transition: identify features only visible with careful stretching

This science case for the image viewer is the starting point for most of the other image viewer science cases in that it describes how users are likely to end up in the image viewer in the first place.  While it focuses on some specific science cases to be concrete, in practice these flows likely apply to nearly all image viewer users. Note also this and related cases sometimes mix together "Imviz" and "image viewer".  The former is used when it's a feature/interface that seems pretty similar to how the existing Imviz tool works, but that's a pretty subtle distinction so it's fine to just think of those two as basically synonyms for the same tool.


## Entry point 1: Sky Viewer on MAST web site

Spock is a methodical astronomer who is well versed in some specific fields, particularly low-surface brightness galaxies.  Spock has been waiting for Roman data because he knows it's going to be uniquely capable of resolving very low surface-brightness galaxies in large numbers. But being a very logical thinker, he wants to methodically check this by comparing what it says to known deep datasets with low surface brightness galaxies.  Thus, when the first Roman images that cover one a field with a well-known LSB, he wants to compare what Roman shows to what he already knows. Hence he starts with a MAST web search on the coordinates of the well-known LSBG. It's not obvious there's a catalog target there, but he sees an icon to open up the sky viewer at that location (see the sky-viewer cases). Immediately he sees a Roman base-map that shows his test LSBG.  It doesn't look as good as other datasets, but he immediately can tell that's partly just the stretch.  He goes to look at the sky viewer stretch options but sees that they are somewhat limited compared to what he's used to doing in e.g. ds9 (which, when you think about it, he shouldn't be aware of in the canonical timeline, but lets blow past that).  Fortunately, there's a prominent icon in the sky viewer interface that says "switch to image viewer/imviz" which lights up when he clicks on several of the actual exposures outlines in the sky viewer.  "Curious" he says, with a raised eyebrow, and clicks on the button.

This then launches an imviz instance, with all the trappings, and the selected data already loaded, but no platform/notebook interface. Spock immediately sees the image stretching options in the UI, though, and uses them to explore the low surface brightness edges of the LSBG. He immediately sees that this dataset is in fact much better than previous datasets, with exquisite resolution covering the whole LSBG.  He does not rejoice, of course, as this is all quite logical, but continues with his work in a satisfied manner.

## Entry Point 2: Sky Viewer in Platform

Mirror Spock is basically the same as Spock in science case but subtly different in various ways (For example, inexplicably, he has a beard...). But he has been introduced to the concept of science platforms for Roman, so he thinks to start there instead of the Roman MAST search interface.  He finds the notebook explianing how to open the sky viewer side-by-side with a notebook in the platform (see the sky-viewer cases).  He can see from that there's a `center_on` method call that will center the sky viewer on his target, which he does to immediately go to the LSBG location. Mirror Spock sees the same thing as regular Spock did, that the sky viewer dsefault stretch images don't show the pixel-level details he wants to see. But he sees at the bottom of the sky viewer example notebook that there is a way to select the images from the sky viewer, and have that set of images be available in the notebook as a Python variable. He does this for the images around the edge of the LSBG, and sees that there is another python helper to show a set of exposures in the image viewer.  He uses that, which promptly creates an Imviz instance and automatically loads the relevant images into it.  As with regular Spock, Mirror Spock plays with the stretch (although in this case, using Python method calls instead of the plugin UI sliders) until he can see the exquisite low surface brightness features. Events proceed the same as in regular Spock's universe.

## Entry Point 3: Direct in Platform 

Mirror Kirk is a well-known astronomer who is a leader in the LSBG area who leads several large collaborations with an iron fist.  When it comes to science, though, he basically just does what Spock suggests, albiet more aggressively.  Hence, when Mirror Spock suggests he try out the platform, he demands Mirror Spock tell him exactly where to start.  Thus he knows to begin right away with the image viewer and a particular set of image datasets Mirror Spock tells him over Slack (which for some reason they all call a "communicator"...).  Mirror Kirk finds the example notebook showing how to start up the image viewer, and after shouting angrily at some trivial mistake in it and swearing to destroy whoever did it (but with a strange cadence to his words...),  he manages to pull up Imviz and load the Roman images. Mirror Kirk uses the UI stretch options, as he doesn't feel the need to be as careful about reproducibility as Mirror Spock, even though having the platform notebook to load the images will be helpful for him in the future.  He sees the same high-quality LSBG features and recognizes the potential. Mirror Kirk immediately goes off to start issuing orders to collaboration members, explaining that if they can harness this dataset first it will give them the power to destroy all competitor collaborations, leaving their science Empire the lone dominant player in the field.

## (Optional?) Entry point 4: Direct from MAST

Note that this case exists to provide a complete set of entry points, but my instinct is that in practice it is the least likely one (as MAST users likely will want to start from the Sky Viewer for context before entering the image viewer). It might be useful to confirm that by looking at usage statistics in the portal, though (i.e. how many users come to image cutouts via portal clocks instead of directly from searches).

Kirk is a thoughtful, some might say, heroic, leader of LSBG collaborations.  Like in the Mirror universe, though, he depends on his good friend Spock for suggestions. Hence, he searches for the same target Spock had success with in MAST, on Spock's suggestion.  Instead of going via the sky viewer, though, he sees an icon that allows him to access the image viewer directly.  Having learned from Spock that the sky viewer isn't great for these sort of features, he clicks on the imviz icon to go straight to the image viewer mode. As with Spock, he sees the LSBG features immediately after carefully adjusting the stretch.  He realizes he can start extending all of his collaboration's work to use Roman, hopefully converting those in nearby fields to understand the value of their scientific approaches and join their Federation of collaborations.  

He turns to his graduate student who has been watching (whom he calls "Yeoman" for some reason), and says a rather awkward joke about it.  For some reason everyone in the room laughs a lot at this forced joke.  But on they go on their 5-year grant, seeking out new galaxies and new low surface brightness features, where no one has researched before.


## Notes

* The descriptions of notebooks above are intentionally a bit vague.  If it would be helpful to decide this now, I (EJT) can write up some concrete concept notebooks to be more specific about this. NO?
* NOTE ON FUNCTIONALITY: Spock, upon seeing Roman observation footprints overlapping a sky background in Sky Viewer, wants to be able to select one footprint (or possibly a set with the same footprint) to "load into ImViz", thus we'll want the ability to send visually selected footprints over to the ImViz tool.
